---
layout: post
title:  Jekyll Tag Generator Workaround on Github Pages
author: eka
tags:
- Github Pages
- Jekyll Pure
- Tag Generator
---

A few years back, I used [Jekyll-Bootstrap](http://jekyllbootstrap.com/) to generate static pages. It was awesome because I could modify it to generate static pages for blog and company profile together. However, when I pushed my changes to [Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/), pages aggregating post tags did not show up. It turned out that Github Pages does not execute `tag_gen.rb` under `_plugins` folder, as explained by [Charlie Park](http://charliepark.org/tag/jekyll/).

<!--more-->

Github Pages overrides `safe` configuration within `_config.yml` file as always `true`, preventing any plugin being executed. Charlie provided a nice and clean workaround, but I didn't want to have two separate repositories for source and static pages. So, I came up with a much simpler workaround, which is copying `tag` folder, generated by Jekyll on local repository, out of `_site` folder by hand before pushing the latest changes to Github Pages. Based on this simple solution, I wrote a short bash script to do it in one go. The script is called `jekyllrun.sh` containing:

<pre>
#!/bin/bash

rm -r tag
jekyll build
cp -r _site/tag .
jekyll serve
</pre>

The script should be put at root directory. It deletes recursively `tag` folder before build, copy a new one from `_site` folder, and then starting Jekyll local service. That easy! I guess this workaround will stay, until one day the Github Pages' policy is changed (or never).